# Biweekly report (14.10.2019)###### General Issues:One of the biggest challenges when beginning the project was probably working together in a team of 5.First of all, managing the team was (and still is) quite difficult. There are several reasons for that:1) ESE is the only lecture which all of us are attending this semester.    Additionally, some of us work beside their studies.     This leads to various schedules and makes it hard to find time for a team meeting where all group members can be present.2) We have different working styles.     E.g., some of us prefer to start working as soon as possible, others prefer to do a sprint just before the deadline.    So we had (and still have) to find the way we can work together more efficiently.3) Each one of us has different ideas, how things should work and be implemented.     Therefore modelling/designing the project was quite difficult.    For some tasks, we did not see immediately whether it belongs to the front- or the backend's responsibilities.    Also, a lot of decisions did not persist for a long time as we realized, we had to implement things in a different way than discussed.But also the technologies are challenging as they are quite new to us.Currently, we are having difficulties when it comes to communicating between backend and frontend - especiallywith HTTPClient definitions. (We are still not sure whether we got it right or not.)###### Backend:In the beginning it was quite difficult for both of us to get used to all the new things, like understanding how to connect to database or which part actually belongs to the backend and how HTTPClient works. But step by step after many google search requests, looking at the demo folder and watching tutorials I think we started to understand what has to bedone and how. For example one of us focused on the database and the other on the email verification. From the email verification we have learnt how a basic jwt token works and how to send mails to the user using nodemailer. Even though we had some problemswhen it came to verify the token and send the email. The solution to the email problem was to tick a box in the email programm(from the address we are sending the mails). And the solution to the verifying problem was to find the right attributes and not toforget the res.send part in the Http Event otherwise the site won't tell you that it worked. Wealso realized then that nodemon gives really good feedback and is very useful.The database itself had many challenges in it. First of all Postgresql is a new database type which only one of us knew, so it took quite some time to set it all up.But once the database was all set up the challenge has really just begun. How should we connect the database to our code, what do we have to consider while working with the express framework, typescript and a database. But also this challenge is slowly getting smaller and more feasible. And step by step, working in a Testproject the connection to the database came and is still coming togehter.There are still many things that we are uncertain about, but wefeel like we already learnt a lot. Also the communication within the backend works quite well.###### Frontend:In frontend project, the first difficulty was to get used to the new technologies. In the beginning, Ionic was a big challenge as the new version was released in 2019 and most tutorials are based on older versions. Some "key points", e.g. routing, changed and "old" tutorials do not work anymore. So in the last 3 weeks, we really learned a lot about Angular and Ionic but also html, css, typescript etc.Also, we found out how to start working with technologies we do not know yet: Tutorials. Luckily, we are not the first ones to code a sign up or a login form.So tutorials helped us a lot when writing the first lines of code. In the manner of "learning by doing", we started understanding and got able to "fix" mistakes in tutorials or adapt it to our project.This is a good start and we are sure that we will continue learning and understanding.